---
layout: post
title: My Biggest Challenge in Learning to Develop
---

## Challenges in Learning to Develop

It has been a long journey so far in learning to develop, my journey began over 5 years ago although during that 5
years I was studying in other curriculum because I was also working on getting my Bachelors degree. While in that I 
took a few courses in a several languages which gave a broad overview of each of the languages but a lot of it just
didn't sink in. so after college and really the last year and a half I began looking for online help where I could
learn to write code I wasn't really sure which direction I wanted to go with being that there are so many different
languages to choose from so I would learn a little Java then switch it up and learn a little C# never really
getting proficient at any languages. I then found some really cool online resources such as Free Code Camp, Code
School, and Code Academy and they all had there pros and cons but one thing they had in common was they introduced
me to web development languages.

I learned quite a bit more but still wasn't pushing myself to continue learning and that is when I decided to do
some research about coding boot camps I found a few of them that looked really good but wouldn't fit my schedule,
Bloc was one of the few that did while also receiving many high reviews from past students. So I thought I would
give it a try and I am glad I did. It has helped me get over some of the major challenges in learning to develop.
Some of those challenges are finding the motivation to continue after getting discouraged by switching languages
every few weeks depending on the flavor of the month by experts. Another challenge I have is the overwhelming
amount of information and knowledge needed to develop a webpage, this has gotten easier as I continue to program
and remember a little more each time I write some code. I suppose that my greatest challenge at this time is
retaining everything that I have learned so far, when I sit down to write code or write out a function it is hard
to know when to write a for loop or when to use an if statement. Looking back on this several months from now I'm
sure I will have different challenges that I face when I am developing and thinking how it easy it is to know when
to apply a specific solution to a problem.
